Modify flink on tidb (#657)
pingcap/blog: flink-on-tidb-reliable-convenient-real-time-data-service.md

Flink writes the main thread into a buffer page. When the page is full, Flink changes the page and creates a thread to flush data to TiDB.

![Flink's synchronous flush](media/flink-on-tidb-flink-synchronous-flush-1.jpg)
<div class="caption-center">Flink's synchronous flush</div>

> Our sink implementation is different. We use a blocking queue for flow control. Data is written into a buffer page. When the page is full, an async thread is immediately created to flush data to TiDB. This improves QPS performance without FIFO semantics. Our test shows that our performance increases from the official 10,000+ QPS to 30,000+.

Author: 实践证明，通过这种方式，我们可以把官方写出的 QPS 从大概 1 万多提升到 3 万以上。

Reviewer: This improves QPS proformance at the scene that we no need for FIFO semantics（希望表达的意思是：在不需要FIFO的业务场景下，这种做法可以提升效率，看这样表达是否更合适？）

Author: ```suggestion
Our sink implementation is different. We use a blocking queue for flow control. Data is written into a buffer page. When the page is full, an async thread is immediately created to flush data to TiDB. This improves QPS performance when the application doesn't require FIFO semantics. Our test shows that our performance increases from the official 10,000+ QPS to 30,000+.
```

![JFlink's async flush](media/flink-on-tidb-jflink-async-flush-1.jpg)
<div class="caption-center">Our async flush</div>

Implementing at-least-once for the sink is more complicated. If we want to make sure data is written to the sink at least once, we must ensure that when the checkpoint is completed, the sink is clean (all data is flushed). We need to include the checkpoint thread, the main thread for flush, and the page-changing thread. The checkpoint is only completed when all the data is flushed to the sink. In this design, once the checkpoint is completed, the sink is definitely clean and all the data is correctly updated in TiDB.

> Moreover, for `INSERT ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statements, if the application supports async batch transaction commit, we can perform a `KeyBy` operation on the unique key before the data goes to the sink. This operation resolves transaction conflict in advance and avoids the probable conflict caused by async commit. The preprocessing significantly raises the sink's throughput to 150,000 OPS.

Author: 对于INSERT ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE的情况，如果业务场景是支持做异步批量事务提交的，可以通过在Sink前对数据关于入库唯一键做keyBy来提前解决事务冲突，来避免异步提交时大概率发生的事务冲突。这个预处理可以显著提升Sink的吞吐量，达到了150K OPS。

![KeyBy to resolve conflict](media/flink-on-tidb-keyby-to-resolve-conflict.jpg)
<div class="caption-center">KeyBy to resolve conflict</div>

> An application team that used to see fluctuating request duration tried the solution above, and reduced the request duration by an order of magnitude. The 999th percentile dropped from 4 seconds to lower than 20 milliseconds.

Author: 一个典型的例子是，我们在于云音乐直播组小伙伴们交流时，发现他们在一个实时批量更新TiDB的业务上有比较大的request duration波动，通过实践我们提出的客户端冲突解决经验，成功地将request duration稳定地下降了一个量级：原先99.9%分位数可能达到4s的请求，现能稳定在20ms内完成，下图展示了他们优化前后的情况：

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An application team that used to see fluctuating request duration tried the solution above and reduced the request duration by an order of magnitude. The 999th percentile dropped from 4 seconds to lower than 20 milliseconds.
```
